---
layout: post
title: New apartment
---

I've finally escaped the old apartment! I guess the old apartment is news to some of my readers, so I'll give a short resume: I've been living for four years <acronym title="In a basement">below ground</acronym>, with some friends. We've had quite a few good times, but living together for that many years does something to you: You kind of grow tired of other people habits, but you also grow into other people habits. I think moving around is healthy from time to time. I <acronym title="Some time in october, I think...">earlier</acronym> this fall figured out it was about time to find a new place, but I didn't really have too much time to find one.
 I really felt the need for my own space, after getting a girlfriend. We started reading ads, but the breakthrough came after adding our own ad in the "local newspaper":http://www.adressetidende.no/: <i>"Couple seeks apartment for rent. Central location. Good references. Rate between 4k and 6k."</i> There were quite a few who called me, but there were only some that was interresting. The apartment I finally decided to rent is a bit expensive (for me), but it's also really nice: There is about <acronym title="4 meter">12 feet</acronym> between floor and ceiling in the bedroom and livingroom. A "rosette":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosette_%28design%29 is located in the center of the ceiling, where the lights hang from. I have an spare bedroom, a bathroom and a kitchen. Total base is around <acronym title="72 sq. meter">800 sq. feet</acronym>. The kitchen is rather tiny, so I can't arrange any big dinners, but that might save me from a lot of work :) The only thing (for now) that is negative is that there is not much water pressure... Not sure what to do with that yet. The big positive aspect with it all, is that me and my girlfriend has a place for our selves.

